Docs for roles/role_cfg (#4221)
tarantool/doc: doc/concepts/configuration.rst

.. _configuration_application:
.. _configuration_application_roles:

Enabling and configuring roles
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An application role is a Lua module that implements specific functions or logic.

> You can enable or turn off a particular role for certain instances in a configuration without restarting these instances.

Reviewer: "enable or turn off" sounds inconsistent. Let's use one word for the two states (`enable/disable` or `turn on/off`)

This section describes how to enable and configure roles.

> To learn how to develop custom roles, see :ref:`application_roles`.

Reviewer: You write about custom roles, but there there is no explanation of _non custom_ roles. Maybe add a sentence about them to the first paragraph?

Author: Good point, updated the intro of this section to tell a bit about different types of roles.

.. _configuration_application_roles_configure:

Configuring a role
******************

The :ref:`roles_cfg <configuration_reference_roles_cfg>` option allows you to specify the configuration for each role.
In this option, the role name is the key and the role configuration is the value.

The example below shows how to enable statistics on called operations by providing the ``roles.crud-router`` role's configuration:

..  literalinclude:: /code_snippets/snippets/sharding/instances.enabled/sharded_cluster_crud/config.yaml
    :language: yaml
    :start-at: roles.crud-router
    :end-at: stats_quantile_max_age_time
    :dedent:

Example on GitHub: `sharded_cluster_crud <https://github.com/tarantool/doc/tree/latest/doc/code_snippets/snippets/sharding/instances.enabled/sharded_cluster_crud>`_

.. _configuration_application_roles_scopes:

Roles and configuration scopes
******************************

As the most of configuration options, roles and their configurations can be defined at :ref:`different levels <configuration_scopes>`.
Given that the ``roles`` option has the ``array`` type and ``roles_cfg`` has the ``map`` type, there are some specifics of applying the configuration:

> -   For ``roles``, an instance's role takes precedence over roles defined at another level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   For ``roles``, an instance's role overwrites all roles defined at another levels.
```
Nit: `overwrites` seems a more straightforward verb to explain that other roles are discarded.
